- [Instructor] Now that we've seen the simplest demo
where we created a simple user bean
and converted that to JSON and back to Java,
let's look at the general default settings
that the JSON Binding API is going to apply
when it tries to do serialization.
The first one is the property naming.
When you talk about the JSON document generation,
of course, we know that JSON has name and value pairs.
Where does it pick up those names from, those keys from?
So, the names are always as per the instance variables
in the beans that you have defined.
And those are the ones that are picked up
during serialization.
So, let's go and check it out in our demo also.
We have this User bean.
And if you look at the User bean,
those were the properties that you've defined
from lines 16 to 19.
And if you look at your JSON representation,
the instance variables are exactly the keys
that were picked up for the serialization process.
So, when your Java object got converted to a JSON document,
the keys will be the instance variables.
That's the default setting that JSON Binding applies.
The next one is property order.
It follows a lexicographical order during serialization.
What that means is the dictionary order.
Even if I try to declare id, name, email, and dateOfBirth
in that order,
the order that it actually made out
during the serialization process
is, yes, the d will come first and then the e.
So, it's a lexicographical order that it always follows.
Next one, null values.
Null values are ignored.
Null entries in collections
are retained during serialization.
What I mean to say is, we already saw a bit of this
when we started off with the user bean example.
When we had the dateOfBirth
or the email or the name as null,
we saw that JSON Binding skipped those null values
during serialization.
I only had the id-getting generated into the JSON document.
That's what it does.
However, if you're going to use Java Collections API
like List or Map or Set or Queue,
then it is going to retain the null values in collections.
And it's absolutely correct
because it is working in compete alignment
with the Java Collections API.
When you talk about a Java Collection class
or, let's say, List or HashSet or HashMap or TreeMap,
every single time you have a null entry,
you're allowed that null entry
into the collection's framework classes, right?
And that's exactly the behavior
that JSON Binding also adopts.
So, yes, it will retain that null value
during the serialization process.
Next, the default or no-argument constructor is required.
That's right.
The default/no-argument constructor is absolutely required
when it tries to deserialize your JSON into Java.
Let's understand this point.
When you had your User object,
it serialized and it gave you this JSON, okay.
Now, when it was trying to deserialize,
if you look at your testing code,
we had given the fromJson API call which had two arguments,
the result and the type, right?
So, it needs that type, as we said,
in order to convert your JSON to the correct Java object.
Now, for doing this, the first step it does is
after reading that JSON,
it will create an instance of this User.class
by invoking your constructor.
And for that, it requires the default constructor.
I wanna do one thing.
Let's come here (typing)
and write a parameterized constructor.
Let's generate that, okay?
And save this code.
And now, let's go here.
And, of course, it is going to start yelling at you
because it'll say that now the default constructor
is not present in your class.
Okay, so what we'll do is we will not construct the object
using the default constructor. (typing)
Instead, on line number 25, (typing)
I'm trying to construct an object
using the constructor that we wrote just now,
which is the parameterized one.
(typing) So, let's do that.
Okay, so I say 123, (typing)
and then I say jsontester, (typing)
and then I say (typing)
test@gmail.com, (typing)
and then I say new Date, (typing)
and give some long value. (typing)
Okay, so we have created the object now
using the parameterized constructor.
Now, let's go ahead and run this code
and let's see what happens.
(mouse clicking)
So, I'm going to say Run File.
Yeah, now we've got an exception.
It says that it can't create an instance of a class
because there is no default constructor found.
So, by default, whenever JSON Binding API
tries to deserialize your object,
it is going to use a default constructor,
and please remember this.
So, even if you write a parameterized constructor
on your own, then what are we going to do?
We are going to make sure
that there is a default constructor written out.
(typing)
That's what we have to ensure.
Now, we'll run this again,
and the exception will go off.
There you go.
So, this is how it works, okay?
The next one is, all the JSON data that it tries to encode
is according to the UTF-8 format,
the Unicodes business that we know, that goes around.
Next is the date and the locale settings.
So, whatever date and locale settings
that it is going to use as a part of your conversion
from Java to JSON or JSON to Java,
every setting will be picked up from the machine.
Okay, and then the last one is,
it supports JSON-P processing types
for serialization and deserialization.
We already talked about this twice in the earlier videos
that the JSON Binding API
uses JSON Processing API internally
for low-level passing
and serialization/deserialization, right?
So, even if you take the JSON-P processing types
and try to construct objects,
and then feed it to the JSON Binding API,
it will still do the serialization and deserialization
the way you want, okay?
So, let's do one thing.
Let's go back to the IDE (mouse clicking)
and let me create a class here
and I'll say
TestJsonpTypes. (typing)
Okay?
And under this, (typing)
of course, let me grab the main method first,
and what is it going to do?
We are now going to use the JSON Processing type API
to actually create an object, okay?
What that means is, I'm going to do something like this.
I'm going to say, JsonObject. (typing)
Now, this is coming from javax.json.
Please make a note of this.
The javax.json.bind is the one that we're using
for JSON Binding API,
but this is the low-level JSON Processing API,
so I'm trying to take the JsonObject from that package.
Okay, so let's take that object
and let's quickly do one thing.
(typing)
Take a reference, and how will you create this?
You have a class called Json, (typing)
which is, again, coming from javax.json,
and on that, you have a createObjectBuilder method.
(typing)
That's the one.
On this, you can actually go ahead and add in
the name and value pairs that you want.
So, let's say name, (typing)
and let's say, I'm saying...
(typing)
Okay.
And then you can add more key value pairs
by just chaining that add API again, okay?
So, I can do something like this.
Just calling that again, that's chaining in Java.
So, you say this
and then say profession, (typing)
and let's say Developer, okay? (typing)
Once you do that, once you know
that all the name value pairs have been added,
you can finally call the build method.
So, now, this will give you a JSON object.
Now, please understand that this is
a JSON Processing type object.
We talked about JSON Processing types
in one of our earlier videos.
We said that for every kind of JSON structure,
you have a corresponding JSON API
available in the JSON Processing specification.
So, JsonObject, JsonArray, JsonString, JsonNumber,
so on and so forth.
So, I'm actually trying to use the JSON-P API
to create an object. (typing)
Now, let's go ahead and convert this jsonObject
into the JSON document.
So, how will we do that?
We take the Jsonb instance, (typing)
(typing)
like that. (typing)
Again, call the create method (typing)
that we have already done before,
and then (typing)
grab the two json method
and just parse in that jsonObject that you created.
(typing)
And let's bring this to the console.
So, I'm going to cut that and put it in the System.out.print
and then call.
Okay, let's run this.
(mouse clicking)
There we go.
So, you can do serialization
even with the JSON-P processing types.
Okay, so those are the general default settings.
We have to see some more on property visibility,
but we'll see that in the next video.